what if there's another story what is
something when I'm broken all this life
all this loss what if it was really one
long story that just kept going and
going until it healed itself didn't that
be a story worth telling hey guys Ryan
and Greg here back for another breakdown
this is the season finale of true
detective season 3
now spoiler warning of course so go
watch that episode first then come on
back here it's a season finale you're
gonna want to watch it for a mine
alright Greg we're here finally here
episode 8 the season finale is called
now AM found now that's a reference to
Amazing Grace now the specific lines and
Amazing Grace I once was lost but now
I'm found was blind but now I see but
obviously a reference to the themes that
we've seen throughout the season the the
time that's involved here the memory
loss and what we see going on with Wayne
as well as kind of the loss of his
family in certain times and doesn't
really remember them and what kind of
went on in this past and by the end of
this episode Wayne really just finds
himself surrounded by his family all
over again and well a little bit of a
nice ending you could say yeah one of
the endings they had I feel like there
was more of them but we're gonna go into
that a little bit later so the episode
starts off with the voiceover from
Amelia she's reading a poem the poem is
calmly we walked through this April's
day by Delmore Schwartz what is the self
admits this place
what am I now that I was then which I
shall suffer and act again more of those
themes of of loss and time time and how
it kind of it's uncontrollable and it's
me it's it's always passing us by and
eventually unfortunately we're all gonna
have an end in the finality to to this
life so what did you think of how the
episode started off well it told me
right off the bat I thought okay we're
gonna go back forth back forth back and
forth like a yo-yo if throughout this
entire episode and it didn't confuse me
at all I thought I was just gonna be
like Westworld the season finale of the
air where there's just way too much what
Bernard going back and forth yeah a
million Wayans story really really came
together in this episode totally so
starting off this way the last maybe one
of the last times they have seen each
other before she starts to get sick or
what happens there we'll talk about that
again later or be too mad at what
happens with Pitt Salado and Amelia's we
didn't see her death or anything like
that I loved it it's fitting because
you're right it was less about the
mystery of the kids in the case and more
about a mystery of these two individuals
and how they came together and how each
of them kind of change each other's
lives it's a love story okay are we
going forward how do we with this big
secret between us so this is a new
timeline we actually saw that an episode
of go but it's kind of like in between
1990 and 2015 let's say early 2000s yeah
wayne is working as security at the
university so you can see his wife is
again a wife we're not sure if that's
the same school probably different
school than what Becca went to when he
was dropping back off at school I'm
assuming so she's trying to get away you
know we are to tell you much yeah but
yeah a little overbearing if he was
there every second but yeah he's
security and amelia is a professor there
and you could see that it was good to
see them on good terms still now let's
pick up from last week and Hoyt and
Wayne is in a bad situation right now
but we know he's gonna get out of it no
unless the timelines really screwing
with us which for a second I thought it
might have for a moment I thought
they're gonna be screwing with us with
the time I'm glad they didn't do it this
was the moment where I thought oh
where are we going with this episode
this was the only part I really there
are two parts where I talked about last
week I thought that was gonna be
exposition for Boyd's character don't
lean out all these lines about what's
going on right off the bat that does not
happen
he quickly strikes that down immediately
telling Wayne I hate I'm in the dark
just like you I just know enough about
this entire case and I only know enough
about what happened to Harrison right we
assumed that Hoyt was this big bad that
was kind of had this grand plan of of
doing this to Julie and will and
possibly other children may be connected
to a larger conspiracy right but as it
turns out he was kind of pretty much in
the dark he has no idea what's going on
he's just a rich dude who likes to drink
alcohol and let's go hunting that's what
is the main thing that we learned about
Edward Hoyt is that you know he lost
pretty much everything yeah he lost his
friend Danny it looks like he's hit him
hard right yeah he has a lot of money he
has deep pockets he has deep influence
in the community he is able to bring
certain things to light to the police if
he wants to evidence that he has on
Wayne and Roland but he doesn't you know
he's not this big bad master person he
doesn't have the answers and but there
is another person who does have all
those answers which I hate it that's I
mean we'll get to it later but the Watts
thing really drove me almost off a cliff
now quite foods as we said in the past
is based loosely on Tyson Foods which is
like another Arkansas company that is
obviously makes amazing chicken nuggets
but and Edwin Hoyt is kind of loosely
based on Don Tyson who was the president
and CEO during the company's meteoric
rise to you know multi-millionaire
multi-million dollar business two
multi-billion dollar business instead
obviously deep influence in the
community yes loosely news stuff yes and
what source is detective Hayes
could this headline be alluding to I
didn't know we're looking at suing here
little girlfriend
okay let's go back to the 80s now for a
second and back again to Amelia's paper
she didn't write the book yet mm-hmm but
everyone's already pissed off and they
want it to die they wanted to give his
own story here Wayne the P DS like let's
let's kill this now and well Wayne well
now we know he says no to that yeah I
was a little bit surprised that he chose
Amelia over what they wanted to do and
kind of thrown into the bus she he took
her back and he was was like no I'm not
gonna do that at first he did not it was
a tough sell he was more of the going
back and forth what do you want at the
end of the day yeah and he chose Amelia
he was willing to lose this job
and deal with whatever came next and you
know not throw her on the bus now he was
giving he was that source that she was
getting on the information from and he
was kind of not happy with how the
investigation was going so no case and
she was his one link yeah hold on to
that he could have dropped it there and
they could have died and no and that's
really the basis for the relationship in
the first place which they bring up from
the episode now were you surprised that
Rowland kind of took the side of his
higher-ups and said hey he might be a
little influenced there you know there's
no romantically linked were you
surprised that Roland did that to his
partner he tried to save his friend here
he tried to get him back into this and
Wayne would not stop this case rolling
can play the game but Wayne way doesn't
want to do that no he's just out of the
Vietnam War and he is it's not the same
for him now back in 2015
grumpy rolled and confused men Wayne and
Roland are at the Hoyt residence there a
break-in they breaking it out just it's
okay cool that's fine can they break in
there but then everything's conveniently
left open for them Andy's in the room
yes they are eyes that everything is
still intact 25 minutes it's overgrown
garden and all everything over there but
you know it's like no one would have
came in there and kind of uncovered the
Sun I know yeah that's the one thing I'm
like okay come on give me give me some
serious Carcosa vibes from season one
yes it did very eerie in there but it
was part of a trust the state was in a
trust and but no one else had any
there's no one else around at all so
inside the pink room where Julie Purcell
was held we see you know the Castle
drawn on the wall we see Princess Mary
we see Sir Junius and clean Isabel you
know it looked like she had a life here
that was pretty good at some points but
also not her true family no not at all
what the hell were you doing
not always right there I had a family
sir Roland's pretty pissed off at this
point yet in 25 years have passed and
you didn't tell me anything about this
or but at the same time he again he was
right he's like looking out for his
family he couldn't wait wouldn't say
anything didn't say anything yeah his
family's safety was in jeopardy if he
said anything to anyone yep and this is
around the time were rolling is a
different man now after the death of Tom
so he probably would have took on this
case and continued it until he found the
killer
now after Wayne comes back from his
visit with Hoyt his little eye to eye
they half of each other he has a
heartfelt moment with Amelia where they
pretty much go over their relationship
in the fact that they really got
together only because of this case in
the first place yeah I'll take a hard
truth over a nice lie any day at this
point you really feel the vibe of okay
they're just gonna keep doing this over
and over like a back and forth what do
you want Wayne where do you want to go
with this relationship and they don't
end it here this is just the version the
bookend for the 90s cut of this Oh what
are we gonna do with our relationship
let's stay together and then they move
on again now I mean while Roland is
taking this all a little bit differently
that tomber cells death took a real big
toll out of him yeah and he's just
looking for a fight literally in the bar
yeah he got it and shocked he survived
after they show that last scene of all
the animals around the Royal Guard and
yet he's just on the ground at the very
end of that shot so you can get the
payoff of the dog coming in one of the
best moments of the season really when
he falls when he falls in love with the
dogs and then you you you know he's been
a collector of strays kind of you know
throughout the season he's been helping
out those that that need his help in he
finds himself in a moment where he's all
alone yeah the dog you know taking in
the dogs is kind of what we see down the
road is a integral part of his life
while we're on rollin right here that
scene was amazing at the same time I
don't know what Stephen Dorff is doing
next but I can't wait to figure out what
the hell it is I'm gonna watch it he'll
definitely have a late career later
career resurgence yes this I mean you
and I make Nick we're making jokes like
you know he was he was fun and in Blade
1 as the bad guy but incredible job two
likes
toe-to-toe with Olli incredible chops
and and you know cuz that he's one of
the best actors in the game and then for
Stephen Dorff to like there's no
drop-off there he's not doing a really
good job this entire season now ray
Fisher on the other hand oh god he's
he's still things he's in the Justice
League he literally is acting like a
cyborg I'm sorry ray
I got a language in my head that I don't
speak of all the actors here you got
it's just filled with so many players
from top to bottom so it's rough so with
Henry I didn't you're telling me like
this since week one you're like I don't
like it I don't like this acting is off
it's so jarring when they're both in the
same scene together him and Ollie
I kept thing at night it'll get better
and then the scene where Wayne and Henry
he's breaking down like about his like
childhood and like I'm sorry and he's
apologizing for the way he treated him
yeah and then Henry the way he has
emotions his tears he does the thing
like this
oh yeah that's when I knew I was like oh
this is different told you Greg I can
see her salon set goes this mother
you're looking at the director and then
waiting looking back is this for real
now if you're talking to Harris James's
wife they get a name
Junius watts which was mr. June and they
track him down and go talk to him now
this is a moment where you didn't enjoy
too much cuz I thought they're gonna
give this exposition to heighten me and
they cut it away and I was like okay
great
alright this is you know divert our
expectations where are we going guys a
new adventure we got an hour and 20
minutes to go and then watch shows up
just to be really like they're walking
that line on magical Negro with him the
only thing they didn't happen he didn't
die at the end that's the only thing
they didn't do at that point but he
still disappears he gives you everything
you want to know all right so here's
what happened since episode one and we
drugged her we you know she I let her
out and so all the clues are right here
he's just telling him everything he's
doling out all this in exposition and
then he just says kay bye kill me punish
me punish me and they're like no no that
you can do that yourself you you have to
live with this
I need y'all to punish me
so here is specifically what happened to
Julie in a will
apparently at a height employee function
at picnic isabell which is ladder
daughter and husband yes spotted Julie
out the window and was immediately
intrigued by this young girl and
reminded her of her own daughter yes and
she wanted to hang out with her spend
time with her and already a little bit
weird and be honest Lucy the great mom
she is besides letting the strangers
hanging out with her daughter as long as
there's money involved that in that will
was there to kind of look over her look
over yeah like that goes back around
yeah the notes and putting in the wall
right so I'll have another one of your
kids be in charge of making sure that
your daughter is safe with the strangers
yeah and meet in the middle the woods
mm-hmm that's all cool all cool yeah
this is really strange to me now at one
point I don't even know if this was
gonna be the day Isabel decided I'm
gonna steal her and take out will but it
just happened to go that way for and she
pushes over well he falls on a rock like
we thought and dies and just watch has
to take care of the body but one thing I
know that the little hands prayer pose
yeah it was done by a sister we thought
all these you know nefarious reasons for
what exactly happened to will and and
the dolls and how he was laid to rest
and all stuff but it turns out is pretty
innocent and it's pretty just like an
accident happened and they covered it up
yeah now you know I don't that's this
part obviously they're in the wrong and
they're they murdered someone even if
it's an accident you need to go to the
cops and explain what happened and then
watch lets us know that Harris James was
complicit in the entire thing you know
and it was really just him boy didn't
know anything else apparently about this
you see no evil hear no evil at this
point it's good I find that hard to
believe as well yeah I know a lot of
stuff happening under the guise knows
who seems like he's a you know he kind
of you know he knows about the GPS
deeper in Harris and Aaron Harris
James's beeper knows about all these
things but he doesn't know what's going
on in the basement in the pink room with
the bank vault lock on it like he had to
have known about that I think at this
point but remember Julie's gone so fact
that like this thing is such a big deal
to Isabel why wouldn't
Edward Hoyt know about you know her
change in character at when there's a
child arrives that's not there isn't it
the house
hey he's complicit as well he knows
what's going on he just doesn't want to
do anything about it because he's trying
to take care of Isabel I'll let you find
your own way back so Harris James did
plant the evidence at Woodards house
like we suspected and he also paid off
Lucy I wonder how much money exactly was
paid off in order to get her to who
knows
be quiet about this but I mean you just
lost your son mm-hmm and you're still
gonna like go along with it and they're
gonna hunt for a few bucks they're gonna
quiet you for some cash that had that
that seems completely unreasonable so
when they're drugging Julie they were
using lithium they were just dosing her
day by day who knows how long yeah out
her childhood for years she was was
being told all these stories and she was
literally drugged the entire time until
watts kind of had enough and wanted to
free her from her one her mind was in
fantasy land
yes point so he wanted to free her I was
surprised that Watts never went to the
police like I said earlier at any point
during this time if you know that it's
is unsafe environment for a child and
that you know Isabel is doing something
horribly mm-hmm how can that happen you
live with that not do something he even
went out to Amelia's book signing
remember so he had the motivation he had
the motive to go do it he wanted to do
something about this and you could say
you can nitpick everything here and say
oh if he called then they would just had
him in a line with a bunch of other
people who say the same thing claiming
they know where Julie is snake farm at
the same time Watts has the ability to
just call and come in there but he feels
like he's scared of Hawaii and the big
business thing going on in the
background which everyone is terrified
of right well the least he could do
could help her escape but she does he
unlocks the the bank vault thing uh-huh
and lets her out and then I know tells
her gives her a map and tells her where
to meet him and you know he was
genuinely gonna help her it seemed but
she never showed up and she ends up at a
convent and which we knew back a few
episodes ago or Amelia talks to a young
woman and that young woman happens to be
the nun that's running the place later
on and that's where you get your first
school yeah okay here we go here
where we going with this and then they
claim that Julie died of HIV at the time
to close the case again at that point
your your head and I'm pretty sure
everyone at home we're going own no
there's no way that happened now now and
his old age genius Watts finally wants
to get punished for this he wants them
to kill him and they're like no no we're
gonna I'm not gonna do that for you
we're gonna let you get the easy way out
let you sit in this we let you sit with
this you have your entire life and your
enough to deal with it and if you want
to take your take your own life
well you gotta you got enough guns here
to do it I need y'all to punish me
so Wayne and Rowland go over to the
cemetery to say their goodbyes to Mary
July their apologies apologize to for
not being able to save her mm-hmm and
being in finish off the case
but then they also come in touch with a
landscaping crew that Mike father
daughter landscaping group his name's
Mike and then the little girl comes over
oh hello Lucy Lucy okay we've heard that
name before Mike obviously is the same
Mike that we've met earlier in the
season he's did a little kid that was
really close with Julie and at one point
you know saw himself marrying Julie you
kind of it fell in love with her little
crush on her boom he started crying he
said he always thought he'd married
Julie when he grew up so at that point
you could say that they could wrap this
season up right then and there
you got Mike the kids in the car they
drive off and you can just wrap it up
there and then the audience go ok that's
we know what's going on here instead the
showrunners get a little meta and the
scene right after that they think do you
do you think this is the ending is this
really is going on we got an ending idea
but I don't you feel like any kind of
closure and from that point you're hit
with ending after ending after ending
likely Return of the King
basically what if I told you there was
another story that's the story uh-huh
the story here we go again so Wayne
tracks down Mike are doing the address
and he heads over there mm-hmm thinking
he's gonna find the entire this is it
reveal this is it this is the ending you
think okay here we go they're wrong and
together and he's gonna explain
everything but then you realize wait
what's gonna happen here
what's gonna happen if he goes in that
door charges the door and knocks on and
says you're actually blah blah what's he
gonna do to her family and everything so
I I actually enjoyed that ending or this
ending number two saying we can call it
dork I agree with you two so he kind of
says that he doesn't remember what's
going on where he is he's lost he's
playing that whole thing up now some
people believe that he truly is
forgetful in that moment and he's he's
doesn't know where he is he's lost he
calls up Henry
helped some people think that maybe he's
kind of playing it off and he does make
the connection that hey this is Julie
Purcell and her daughter in front of me
I don't think he made the connection I
think was way more bittersweet people
think I'm like 50/50 on the fence I
don't know for sure
the only problem if if he if he did make
the connection and he has the address
and he truly wants her to be in hiding
and the story kind of healed itself
right and he doesn't want to bring any
this stuff to surface because it would
bring so much pain to the surface then
why even give the note back to his son
Henry so we're not just tossed in the
trash can why I think that's what isin
else that's for Eliza
that's Henry gives that note to Eliza
which is gonna keep the case open which
and she's gonna crack it up yeah so if
Wayne truly wanted this the story to end
there and for Julie to kind of live on
in this new life that she created and a
lot of stuff horrible stuff happened
along the way but she's now safe and she
has a family and they're enjoying life
it seems I don't know why you would hand
over that note and keep that note keep
that possibility open so we get our most
the Wizard of Oz type happy and Dean the
whole gangs all together at this point
you're thinking Oh Roland's showing up
with the dogs and everything we needed
the dogs there's it one thing to note
when they're on the porch right there
the grandkids are riding their bikes an
obvious callback to episodes on when the
/ cells are on their bikes as well
triggers Wayne and he goes back into his
mind one last time you think they are oh
oh are we gonna get one last clue about
is he gonna find out write them in there
it was Julie the woman at the door no no
no this is one more time with Amelia
this really bookends the entire show at
this point it gives you one last
scenario we're at the beginning Amelia's
like what do you want to do yes or no
middle what do you want to do yes or no
and then at the very end same question
he doesn't know but he knows he wants a
million in his life
they come woman where are you now let's
talk about that last shot that we see we
see Wayne in the jungle he's a natural
tracker as we know in the Vietnam War
and then he kind of loved that shot
disappears into the jungle itself it's
the last shot we see how'd you interpret
that great way to end it and it really
just goes back to you can watch the
season again and really the main
character here is Vietnam
it's the Vietnam War from beginning to
end everything that's triggered Wayne
even the musical score they had in the
background for certain scenes when he
flips in and out of where he wants to go
where he doesn't want to be a certain
time and you look back at the scene with
Woodard backand I think was an episode
two or three and the interrogation
seeing where whither it says this you
ever been someplace you couldn't leave
you couldn't stay
but at the same time the Purcell case
Wayne's dementia Amelia his relationship
with Amelia are all wrapped around the
Vietnam War it's filled from the brim
with a Vietnam references that from
beginning to end even when Hoyt brings
up the fact that I was in the seventh
infantry right and it's stuck with him
you can't go wait and he knows that you
know that Wayne has seen some things
yeah it's been in action and it kind of
also goes that idea that a lot of
Vietnam vets are also like dreamers like
when you're in a situation of as intense
as war you kind of have to bring your
mind out to deal with those things in
and out of different types of reality
right better better memories better
moments of your life in order to kind of
get out of the horrors that you're
seeing when you're in war yeah ii Wayne
step back on American soil he's been
dealing with this idea of closure
he hasn't had it he's been trying as
hard as the first case he gets right
when he comes back from Vietnam when
he's a detective
what is the Purcell case he never got
that ending he wanted from that case at
all and so we go again to the 90s he's
continuing in that case and then again
in 2015 he won't let it die he has to
continue it in the bittersweet I think
it's kind of bittersweet ending because
I think that you know him kind of
disappearing to the jungle he's always
gonna be tracking so there's gonna be
kind of in his own memories and he is
sick you know he's always gonna be
searching for that conclusion he'll be
coming back and forth this what is let's
think yeah he might not get there time
is a flat circle this is a world where
nothing is solved
and someone once told me time is a flat
circle
everything we've ever done or will do
we're gonna do over and over again now
let's end this breakdown with some
questions that you and I still have
after seeing this season play out um
number one what happened with Eliza in
the documentary I has canceled it I feel
like did they cut it's like that out
that they just picked that part out and
I'm Netflix like I feel like this
should've been a call which is Henry on
the line he's got the note and he's like
hey Eliza I got this check but at the
same time he's trending back with his
wife now so I don't think he's gonna be
hitting a little I say anytime soon
exactly it woulda been interesting to
see her in this seat in this episode
just to see you know the information
that she might have in 2015 because
remember she it seemed like she had a
ton of info like still to share it's a
lot of was using her as a character as
for us of the audience and Reddit Steve
that's where her character was the
entire time and he just pulled it away
for the entire final episode now how
about Amelia at one point I think you
and I thought she was a suspect and I
think a lot of the internet did because
the first episode which made me go
there's no way she's probably the killer
and I'm glad they didn't have that final
poll back where he's like oh boy at the
very end without heads and the bikes
yeah but no it's just on their love
story and she's happened to be a great
writer and really intrigued I was going
on and wanted to help out and just fell
in love with me that's it now what we
didn't get is how Amelia passed away no
but Nick puts a lot of said on his
Instagram that she passed away in her
sleep peacefully they filmed 2013 yeah
and they didn't actually show that in
the episode but that it is filmed yes
they cut it and he wants to put it on a
DVD or something down the line he's
gonna have these deleted scenes come
back it is good to know that these time
they that they they're on a good note
yes he passed away that it wasn't I
think that's what they had us do with
the very first scene of this episode
where they're together they're like okay
there's still hope there's still very
moments they had together even after
even during them in betweens of this
case and finally Roland we you know he
had a really good character arc for the
entire season but we didn't really find
out what happened in some of his
personal life with his partner that he
had really on and then how it turned
into him him being solo kind of losing
everything
and then just pick it up a bunch of
stray dogs yeah that's just his life who
people thought oh did he have a
relationship with Tom what was going on
not true
the whole thing with it we thought his
wife he was she was never his wife they
never said that so he wasn't lying to
Wayne a few episodes back when he was
asking where's your wife let's milk she
wasn't his wife overall I still enjoyed
his character are totally it was very
very well done that's because again
Stephen Dorff he did an amazing job you
don't want to live with it
[ __ ] don't alright let's wrap this up
Greg are you excited for a season four
of true detective I do you think I know
the answer yes yes in fact I really I'm
gonna go back and watch the season a lot
more than I thought I was from the
beginning the first the second view it
warns a few viewings honestly what it
did in season three compared to season
one it took just the feeling gave you
the feeling of season one this time over
at the same time I thought they did a
great job because of the acting kept it
together the entire time you can nitpick
anything you want here especially the
wot scene at the very end but I enjoyed
almost every second of this season I
agree with you I enjoyed it a lot that
was a major return to form after season
two which I did not prefer to view not
bad yo but some crappy Vince Vaughn
lines that's about it it's not that bad
season three very much felt like season
1 I'm amazing acting across the board
I'm excited for whatever comes next it's
probably gonna be some time though yeah
it's a lot oh he works a lot better when
he has the time in space and he also
said that he may do a movie or something
else another show all right which was
totally fine I love that give him a year
year and a half more as much time as he
needs to write the next season and also
if there I don't expect there to be more
than one more season if he does another
season because he already said prior
that he wasn't a huge fan of coming back
and trying to rewrite the will over and
over and over if they do do a season
four I'm guessing they're gonna continue
to link together the child ring any way
they can whether or not they're gonna
try to solve it in this season who knows
maybe it's a Miami Vice kind of thing I
would love that they just take it down
to Miami you see old rust school on a
boat somewhere is in the seventh episode
and they're just asking them questions
about the old cases
they could go that way whether or not
they're gonna do it in the next season
who knows but again I'm all for whatever
they have Miami Vice would be my
favorite idea but I think they're
actually gonna remake and they're
rebooting Miami Vice so Nick Pitts law
does a lot of research and work into his
season so he may not want anything
that's too close to the show totally
guys that'll do it for this breakdown
thank you guys so much for watching all
season long with us let us know what you
thought of the season and how you
thought the finale wrapped up if you
liked it if you didn't like it
what other theories you might have
know what you guys thought thank you so
much once again for watching along with
us it was all in Russ Cole's head the
entire third sees the entire season yep
Wow bye guys